Over the last 5 years, I've interviewed
over 466 B2B and SAS marketing experts.
And in that time, I've learned some
absolute gems when it comes to SAS and
B2B marketing. And a lot of what you'll
hear out there is absolute nonsense. So,
I'm here [music] to separate the fact
from the fiction and tell you what
actually drives pipeline when it comes
to SAS marketing and B2B marketing today
so you can get actionable tips to take
away. Plus, I'll share the learnings
from scaling my own agency, breaking B2B
to 140K MR in just 21 months. Let's dive
in.
So, lesson one is customer research.
Now, sadly, this is probably the most
neglected thing in general with B2B
marketing when it really should be the
backbone of anything you do before you
even consider doing any type of content,
ads, marketing, messaging for your
website. If you're not doing it backed
by customer research, then you're
basically working off guesswork. So,
we'll talk about and we'll dive into
some of the things you should consider
when it comes to making sure your
customer research is spot on and so
you're actually going to resonate with
your dream clients. So, what I recommend
doing is building out a frame of
questions, which I'll dive into in a
sec. And essentially, we want to
interview recently won clients and also
if we've got recently churned customers.
The reason we want recently won clients
is because they're not biased to our
company, to our solution, to our offer.
If we interview long-term clients, they
love us already. They're going to tell
us everything what we want to hear when
really what we want is the folks that
don't have allegiance to us are going to
give us the real facts, the real
insights, the real ideas so we can start
picking up signals on how we should
inform our messaging, the marketing
channels we use, our go to market and
more. So some of the questions I like to
ask and you can chop and change these
for your niche and for your offer are
what were you struggling with? What was
the expensive problem that you faced
when you first reached out to us? What
was the impact that problem had on your
business? When did it get so frustrating
that you realized you had to evaluate
solutions like ours? What competitors
were you reviewing when you were looking
at our types of solutions? What made you
nearly not work with us? What do you
hate most about our industry? And what
eventually made you decide to work with
us? And one other thing I'd say is where
do you get trusted information from?
I.e. what are the main channels you go
to? Is it LinkedIn? Is it YouTube? Is it
podcast? Is it peers? Is it networking
groups? like where do you get your
trusted insights from when you're
evaluating vendors or solutions in our
industry? If you can run seven to 10 of
those with recently won customers or if
you can mix in some recently churned,
what you want to do is record those
calls on Riverside or Zoom or similar.
Use a call recording tool like Fathom.
Get the call transcripts, run them
through a tool like Chat GBT or similar.
And then you want to look for patterns
in the responses. What are the most
common responses that you get? What are
the common words that folks use? So you
know the actual descriptive words. So
instead of using jargon in your
messaging, you can actually use crisp
and specific words. your dream clients
use. So your website messaging, your ad
messaging can resonate. What are those
top expensive problems that keep coming
up time again? So again, you can
leverage those pain points in your sales
calls and your ads and your website and
more. What are your dream clients jobs
to be done? What are the motivators?
What are their main goals and
aspirations? So all of this just informs
your full go to market. So instead of
kind of blindly putting money into ads
or coming up with random website
messaging or trying to invest in
marketing channels, you actually have
clear data to go for that's backed by
the dream clients you're actually trying
to attract. So that's lesson one. Lesson
two, having an organic growth engine is
a non-negotiable. So more and more B2B
tech and SAS clients are investing tons
and tons of ads, but the cost per click
is constantly rising. And with many SAS
companies backed by VC funding, it's
getting tougher and tougher to get a
solid ROI through channels like paid
media and ads. That's why channels like
SEO now AEO are solid for building mind
share, driving organic inbound pipeline,
and also producing evergreen assets. So
just like when you do a search on
YouTube, you can see content that's
recent, weeks old, but you can also see
content that's months or years old. SEO
is exactly the same when you publish
articles, blog posts, landing pages,
product pages, competitor pages, they
can rank not just in the next 90 days or
so, but they can rank for months or
years to come. Building that mind share,
driving quality traffic, driving inbound
leads, pipeline, and much much more. So
when it comes to SEO, what can you
actually do tactically to drive
pipeline, build mind share, and actually
grow revenue for your B2B SAS or tech
company? Well, the simplest way to do it
is work out what the dream clients
search for on chat GBT, LLM, or Google
when they're not messing around in
information mode, but they're actually
in buying mode. They're in that 5% of
your total addressable market that's in
buying mode. You've probably heard the
955 rule. So, you want to go after that
5% in buying mode. So, if you're a SAS
company going after money keywords and
often times these money keywords can
rank as quick as kind of 90 days and
start driving leads and that could be
things like competitor alternative, that
could be competitor one versus
competitor 2, competitor pricing or
similar. Or then you can look at terms
like best X software, best X software
for niche, industry based landing pages.
So it's essentially working out what's
every way that a target prospect could
search for our solution when they're
ready to have a sales conversation, when
they're frustrated with the existing
competitor, or when they're weighing up
similar solutions in your niche. And
then you essentially want to build
best-in-class pages for those. Work out
what type of page ranks well. Is it a
listical like we evaluated the best 10x
softwares of 2026? Is it a comparison
like software company 1 versus software
company 2? Is it a landing page talking
specifically about the niche, industry,
and use case? And then you want to blow
out whatever competitor pages are
ranking well now completely out the
water. So if you see a landing page is
ranking well, you think, all right, this
page has got maybe some information
about the topic, a couple testimonials.
How can we completely obliterate that in
terms of content that's going to be
useful and actually build trust with our
dream clients? That could be you go for
the problem agitation solution
framework. You weave in plenty of trust
signals. You weave in FAQs. You answer
all those tough to answer questions.
Then you may need to reinforce this with
something called backlinks. So earning
niche relevant backlinks from partner
sites or getting listed in other
listicles talking about your products or
similar and then over time you'll be
able to not only rank for the low
competition keywords which might be
competitor alternatives which can often
rank really fast but then the more
difficult keywords like best x software
you can start chipping away at as you
build out the content engine and as you
build out backlinks. So SEO, AEO,
building that visibility on both AI
search, LLMs and Google is becoming more
and more important as a piece of the
puzzle for the buying journey to get
that evergreen asset flowing, build that
mind share, reduce reliance on paid
media, and also drive a steady stream of
organic inbound leads and pipeline. Oh,
and by the way, if you want to start
driving pipeline from SEO and AEO as
quick as 90 days, why not grab a call
with me over at breakingb2.com? We can
chat through exactly where you're at
now, where you want to get to, and see
if we're a good fit to start driving
results through AEO and SEO. So, hit the
link in the description below or go to
breakingb2b.com.
Back to the video. Lesson three is show
your pricing. Reason being, so many B2B
SAS tech companies hide their pricing
because they think they're going to get
more leads when they may do. But the
problem is if you hide it, those
prospects, those potential clients,
they're not going to be qualified
because they don't have any idea how
much your offer costs. Wouldn't you
rather get less quote unquote leads but
more qualified buyers that actually have
the cash ready to invest in your
solution? And the other downside about
hiding your pricing is now when loads of
folks are searching for things on chatbt
and looking up your brand and your
pricing, if you don't have it clearly
visible on your website as a dedicated
page, what someone might find is when
they're searching for your solution,
your software and pricing, they may see
someone from Reddit who's perhaps
disgruntled or annoyed that you weren't
transparent with your pricing, sharing
something, but it might not even be the
accurate price. So there's multiple
downsides. So what should you do? Where
should you get started? Well, I
recommend, especially if you're a SAS
company, having three tiers, maybe a
starter, medium, and a popular plan, and
possibly enterprise. If you're a service
company, you might think, Sam, well, I
can't share our pricing because it's so
bespoke and custom to every particular
inquiry we get. Well, I'd recommend
having a bracket like tier A is between,
for example, 5 to 10K. Tier B is 10 to
20K. Tier C is maybe 20K to 50K. At
least that way you've got a bucket so
people can get a rough idea, a rough
estimate of what it costs. They're not
going in blind. So, you're getting way
more qualified prospects. You're not
annoying your sales team. And it all
links back to that customer research.
People want to know how much it costs
before they waste time on a demo or a
sales call. So, make sure you have a
clear broken down pricing page. Not only
that, it can be a sales enabler. Your
pricing page can show the price. It can
have social proof of why customers chose
you. It can answer FAQs around the price
itself. So, why you so expensive
compared to competitor? Do I get a
dedicated account manager? What's your
return policy? What's your guarantee?
All that kind of stuff. So it can
basically speed up sales cycle and
handle all those questions and make it
easier for everyone, both your
prospects, your sales team, and more. So
make sure you're showing it.
So next lesson is obsessing over your
full funnel. Marketers and founders are
especially guilty of focusing on the
wrong kind of metrics. They might be
thinking they're getting tons and tons
and tons of leads or MQLs through the
door when if you look at the back end,
they're not actually converting into
closed one revenue. So they might be
getting things like ebooks, signups,
maybe even booked calls, maybe demo
requests possibly. But when we look at
the back end, they're not converting
into qualified conversations. Perhaps
those prospects that come in the door
are not right fit. They're not actually
turning into close one revenue. So
instead of just looking at top- end
leads, we want to be looking at how they
go through the full CRM. So do they have
initial discovery call? Do they go on to
demo or presentation call and they
eventually become closed one revenue?
What source are they coming from? So
perhaps the leads that are just not
getting anywhere through the sales
cycle, maybe that's coming from social
ads or LinkedIn ads or Facebook ads,
whatever it may be. But we work out that
maybe our most qualified buyers are
coming from, for example, SEO, AO, maybe
partnership play. So we've gone through
the metrics, we've gone right through
our CRM, we've talked to our sales team,
our customer success team, what we're
actually seeing as close one. Now we
have a good grip on what channels are
actually converting into the deals that
actually go into close one revenue as
opposed to just focusing on getting as
many leads through the door as possible.
to have a good grip on where we need to
double down and not actually just
focusing on kind of vanity metrics maybe
keep investors or founders happy when
actually the metrics may look lower but
it's actually much more relevant to
actually what has business impact lesson
five productled content is king so many
B2B and tech companies are pumping out
tons of content whether that's for SEO
blog posts landing pages etc LinkedIn
posts YouTube content but they're never
really or they're rarely featuring their
product so they might be talking about
their industry sharing useful tips case
studies, etc. But the folks that are
driving real revenue through their media
engines, through their content, often
feature their product or their solution
or their service as the painkiller or as
the new and better way to get the job
done. For example, if we're writing a
blog post, we might say, "Look, you
might be struggling with this manual
effort or trying to do something
internally. Maybe you're juggling
spreadsheets and it's causing churn or
causing folks to leave your
organization. This is how our software
alleviates all that pain, speeds up the
sales cycle, saves all this time and
energy." And this is screenshots of it
in action. This is a GIF of it in
action. And this is actually showing
exactly how we get the job done.
Companies like HFS, the SEO tool, the
absolute masters of this. If you look at
the HF's blog, almost every article
positions their tool as the painkiller
to the problem you're facing. And
likewise, if you're posting content on
LinkedIn, but doesn't actually talk
about your brand as the new better way.
Yes, you can be valuable. Yes, you can
talk about your niche. Yes, you can
share your point of view, but at some
stage, you've got to talk about your
solution or product. And the same with
YouTube content, just like we do every
now and then. We'll talk about SEO.
We'll talk about tips, case studies,
reviews, how to make SEO and AO a
profitable source for your SAS and how
to drive pipeline. But eventually, we've
got to plug our company Breaking B2B.
Well, no one's going to know what we do.
It won't have that business impact. So,
make sure when you're building content,
you do position your offer, your sort of
solution, as the new better way to get
the job done and as that painkiller to
actually drive that pipeline. Lesson six
is building a media engine. And ideally,
you want to be able to create a content
flywheel effect. So, for example, what
we do at breaking B2B, and you can copy
this exact framework, is we'll often
build a long- form YouTube video to
start with that we'll build a rough
script for, and that could be something
like SAS SEO strategy or a B2B SEO
strategy or B2B SEO playbook. We'll use
that as a piece of pillar content. Then,
that might inform a blog post that can
then go on a website and rank
organically on Google, chat, GBT, and
LLM. Then, we can chop up that video for
short clips that we can then post to
LinkedIn. And it can also give us future
ideas for our newsletter, the breaking
B2B newsletter, plus long form LinkedIn
written post. So from that one long form
asset springs off a load of ideas for a
bunch of other channels and has so much
replay value. Plus that long form
YouTube video has organic playback as
does the SEO piece that we'll build out
as the shorts and much much more. So the
point I'm trying to get to is work out
what are the long form assets that can
be evergreen that you can then get a
bunch of replay value off that can serve
different parts of the funnel as well.
So, you might have some how-to content
at the top of funnel to kind of build
information awareness, some middle of
funnel content, and then some bottom of
funnel content around case studies,
reviews, breakdowns, examples, social
proof, client interviews. So, you're
kind of thinking, how are we attacking
people at the early stages kind of
getting information, folks are halfway
there, and then folks that kind of need
that little nudge, that trust signal,
that social proof that kind of just need
that little tipping point to be able to
have that confidence to book a call or
book a demo with you. So, that's how we
think about building a media engine. Up
at number seven, we've got building in
public. So, in the world we're in now
where so much content can be produced at
the click of the fingers with AI and SAS
tools. Building in public, sharing
openly the ups, the downs, and
everything in between of your own
business is one of the fastest ways to
show transparency, show that you're
actually a real person and build trust,
especially when it comes to publishing
on channels like LinkedIn or a podcast
or YouTube. So, we do this at breaking
B2B. In fact, we pick up regular
retained clients for 5K plus just
through me sharing openly kind of what's
going on in the agency, what revenue
levels we're working at, what marketing
channels are working, what's not, what
we're doing when we're practicing what
we preach to our own SEO, our own AEO,
and also one clear example is we work
with a company called RB2B and a founder
called Adam Robinson. They're scaling
massively. They're nearly at 7 million
annual recurring revenue. And right now,
we're running their SEO engine. So each
month we'll post the exact game plan
that we're running for them in terms of
the strategy, content plan, the
technical SEO, the link building, the
brand mentions, what we're doing on AI
search. We openly share the ups, the
downs, clear results, what's driving
signups, what's not, so other folks can
literally copy the strategy, implement
themselves, but it builds the extra
layer of trust. And another example is
Adam openly shares what's going on in
his own business, RB2B, the visitor
identification software SAS. And that's
how he picks up the majority of signups
and revenues for his own company, just
by literally building in public, sharing
exactly what's working, what's not,
where they're stressing out, where
they're leaning on AI, where they're
not, where they've had crashes and
burns, and where they've kind of gained
profitable wins. So, I think building in
public, especially building a founder
brand and sharing all this is kind of
the next best trend, especially in the
world we're in now with AI.
And the last step is speed slays the
giants. What do I mean? Well, many giant
companies, they might be doing a ton in
revenue, but they move super slow when
it comes to decisions, marketing,
agility, and much more. So, your
advantage as a smaller, scrappier
startup or smaller company is you can
move way quicker. SEO, for example, one
of the quickest ways you can see impact
is working out what your money, revenue,
and pipeline driving keywords. Map out
what type of content you need to build
to rank effectively for those on Google
organic and LLMs and chat GBT. And if
you can have a process of publishing at
speed whilst the massive companies are
still trying to work out what they want
to do, going through layers and layers
of management approval, going through
multiple people to get things signed
off, you can already have a ton of lines
in the water, have a ton of content
published, you can start ranking on
Google organic, start getting visibility
on AI and chat GBT and similar. And you
can start slowly taking market share
just by having a bias for action and
getting things done. And it's the same
with most marketing channels. If you can
have a strategy that's rock solid,
that's based on customer research like
we talked about, links back to your
dream clients problems, expensive
issues, goals, jobs to be done, what
they actually care about, targets the
right kind of buyer, the right ICP, if
you can build out that money content
that positions your product as a
painkiller with the right strategy and
framework, and do that at a pace that
crushes the slowmoving giants, you can
start grabbing market share from them
because they'll be sleeping on these
opportunities. And that applies to not
just SEO, but just B2B marketing in
general. And there we have it. Those are
the practical learnings from
interviewing hundreds of B2B marketing
leaders. And if you've tuned in so far
and you think, I want to start building
up my organic engine and driving a
steady stream of sales opportunities,
leads, demos, sales calls through SEO
and AO, why not book a call with me over
at breakingb.com and we can see if we're
a good fit [music] to start ramping up
your organic engine and driving inbound
leads. That's breaking.com or hit the
link in the description below. Or if
you're not ready yet, why not grab my 90
days torevenue SEO playbook, breaking
B2B.com, hit the newsletter tab, or you
can check out the breaking B2B podcast
[music] for weekly interviews with SAS
and B2B marketing leaders. And with
that, I should catch you on the next
one.